---
layout: post
title: J. Walker Blackston, aspiring data scientist, goes back to school (again):
date: 2019-06-05
---

Today, I kicked off my first day of class and independent study through MIT's open courseware, "Introduction to Computer Science and Programming using Python." I have done some modest prep work to this end, having already podcasted the first five lectures on long rides to the gym, but with how I learn maths and logic, this kind of familiarity is almost necessary. 

We are covering the philosophical underpinnings of computer science and thinking algorithmically. Thinking of an algorithm as a recipe that is repeated has to the the best analogy I have heard to date. 

Next, we performed an exercise to break down the algorithm embedded in the "square" function in mathematics. It posits that if you have some guess, "g," and multiply g by itself to get some result, "x," you can repeatedly walk through a process of guessing, adding the guess to the guess divided by our x (so g + x/g) then divide that by 2 (average it) and come increasingly close to the desired outcome. Don't believe me? Try it with the assumption that we do not know the square root of 16. Maybe we start with 3. 3 times 3 is 9... which ain't 16. Keep going! 3.5? Almost there, but this comes out to 12.25. Again, not 16. As we see our guesses converge nd get closer to 16 we can STOP! Bam. That's an algorithm that we can even represent on our computers. My next task will be to try and programmatically define my own square root function (hopefully by tomorrow!). 

   
A bit of meta: I have also arrived to a morning schedule that is productive and mindful enough for me to be sustainable. It starts by 1) waking up before 6:30, 2)either jumping straight into a coding challenge (after sufficient caffeine restoration) or workout, 3) a few laps around Audubon park on bike while working on the coding challenges in my head, 4) at least 10 minutes sitting meditation, and 5) an ice cold shower (it's hot here y'all, even by 8 am). I like this approach for several reasons: First, the park is quiet and I am the most mentally sharp in the mornings. Also, even if I tank the rest of my day looking at reddit or dream jobs, I can feel good knowing my morning packed alot of devoted deep work in. 


Here goes nothin'
